docs/application/native/guides/ui/overview.md, before:

# User Interface

The user interface features introduce how you can create a visual outlook for the UI application to ensure the best possible user experience.

The UI framework is a universal, reusable software environment that provides the essential building blocks as part of the Tizen platform to facilitate the development of Tizen native applications. The framework provides the window, UI components, and scene-based graphic rendering architecture needed to manage your application user interface. In addition, the framework provides animations and effects needed to make your application more fresh and vivid, event handling and the main loop to interact with the user and system, and other features, such as scalability and font setting. The Tizen platform provides the EFL and DALi UI toolkit frameworks.

You can use the following user interface features in your native applications:

- [Enlightenment Foundation Libraries (EFL)](efl/index.md)

  You can use the EFL UI toolkit if you are creating a 2D-based Tizen native application. However, EFL supports 2.5D and 3D effects and 3D objects as well. EFL provides streamlined graphic core libraries you need to create powerful applications. EFL needs relatively low memory but provides high performance, and supports a retained mode graphics system and user-centric features, such as themes, 2D/3D effects, and accessibility. In addition, EFL supports various resolutions with the same layout, fast and small file systems, a variety of programming language bindings, and a separate UI and logic.

- [Dynamic Animation Library (DALi)](dali/index.md)

  You can use the DALi 3D UI toolkit if you are creating a high-performance rich UI application. DALi is based on OpenGL&reg; ES 2.0 and 3.0; however, it hides the complexity of the OpenGL&reg; ES API from you. DALi requires a GPU (Graphical Processing Unit) on the device.

  DALi is multithreaded to improve performance and scalability, and enables developers to quickly create Rich UI applications with realistic effects and animations such as:

  - Image & Video galleries
  - Music players
  - Games
  - Maps
  - Homescreens / launch pads
  - Advanced watch faces for wearable devices

## Related Information
- Dependencies
  - Tizen 2.4 and Higher for Mobile
  - Tizen 2.3.1 and Higher for Wearable

Commit message:

Added tizen-ws-shell document to the native application guide

docs/application/native/guides/ui/overview.md, after:

# User Interface

The user interface features introduce how you can create a visual outlook for the UI application to ensure the best possible user experience.

The UI framework is a universal, reusable software environment that provides the essential building blocks as part of the Tizen platform to facilitate the development of Tizen native applications. The framework provides the window, UI components, and scene-based graphic rendering architecture needed to manage your application user interface. In addition, the framework provides animations and effects needed to make your application more fresh and vivid, event handling and the main loop to interact with the user and system, and other features, such as scalability and font setting. The Tizen platform provides the EFL, DALi UI toolkit frameworks and the Tizen window system shell.

You can use the following user interface features in your native applications:

- [Enlightenment Foundation Libraries (EFL)](efl/index.md)

  You can use the EFL UI toolkit if you are creating a 2D-based Tizen native application. However, EFL supports 2.5D and 3D effects and 3D objects as well. EFL provides streamlined graphic core libraries you need to create powerful applications. EFL needs relatively low memory but provides high performance, and supports a retained mode graphics system and user-centric features, such as themes, 2D/3D effects, and accessibility. In addition, EFL supports various resolutions with the same layout, fast and small file systems, a variety of programming language bindings, and a separate UI and logic.

- [Dynamic Animation Library (DALi)](dali/index.md)

  You can use the DALi 3D UI toolkit if you are creating a high-performance rich UI application. DALi is based on OpenGL&reg; ES 2.0 and 3.0; however, it hides the complexity of the OpenGL&reg; ES API from you. DALi requires a GPU (Graphical Processing Unit) on the device.

  DALi is multithreaded to improve performance and scalability, and enables developers to quickly create Rich UI applications with realistic effects and animations such as:

  - Image & Video galleries
  - Music players
  - Games
  - Maps
  - Homescreens / launch pads
  - Advanced watch faces for wearable devices

- [Tizen Window System Shell (TZSH)](tizen-ws-shell.md)

  You can use the Tizen window system shell if you are manipulating windows of the sytem graphical user interfaces (GUI) services such as the quickpanel. It allows developers to control windows of system GUI services and be notified state changes of them within an application. Most applications don't need to use the tzsh's functionalities. However, some applications may want to perform manipulation of system GUI service's window in certain situations.

## Related Information
- Dependencies
  - Tizen 2.4 and Higher for Mobile
  - Tizen 2.3.1 and Higher for Wearable
